Historic Effects on Character Options
Because this is the 10th century in the setting, certain character options are different.

- Maho

- Togashi Tattooed Order (pages 115-116): The Crane tattoo, Hawk tattoo, Ki-Rin tattoo, Scorpion Tattoo and Wolf tattoo
can be activated a number of times per day equal to the ise zumi's school rank. All the tattoos are so large that they can
never be used with armor.

Changes to Advantages, Skills, Spells and Equipment
- Fires of Purity spell (page 181): This spell has been removed. A replacement rank 1 Fire Spell (Gift of Amaterasu) taken
from a supplement book is provided later in this document.
- Armor (page 198): The TN penalties from all types of armor also apply to Spell Casting Rolls.
- Naginata (page 202): The naginata has a DR of 3k3.
- Wakizashi weapon (page 205): You may draw a wakizashi as part of the same action as a katana.

New Spell: Gift of Amaterasu
> Ring/Mastery: Fire 1 (Defense)
> Range: 50’
> Area of Effect: 50’ radius sphere (can be cast on a willing creature)
> Duration: 10 minutes
> Raises: Range (+25’ per Raise), Duration (+5 minutes per Raise)
This spell is a prayer to Amaterasu, the Sun Goddess, asking her to bestow her favor on the caster in the form of radiant
Fire kami. Once the prayer is completed, warm sunlight blazes down on the chosen area, bathing it in full daylight even if
it is at night, indoors, or underground. The spell can also be cast on a willing creature, allowing the area of light to stay
centered on the target while it moves, but the area of effect is reduced by half (after raises for range). This spell is
particularly popular among shugenja who are assigned to assist in the protection of castles and other vital locations, since
a sudden blaze of daylight can be a very effective deterrent to thieves, assassins, and spies.

Money Stipends
Once per in-game year, a character’s faction will provide him more money. The formula is the character’s starting koku
(as specified by their School and relevant advantages) multiplied by the character’s Status, and then doubled. Ronin,
monks, and similarly resourceless characters do not receive this benefit.

Changes to Basic Rules
- The 10 Dice Rule (page 77): If you would roll exactly 11 dice, you can still convert two rolled dice into one kept die,
thereby bringing you down to 9 rolled dice.
- Stances (page 84): Clarification - During the first round of the skirmish, everyone announces their chosen stance at the
same time, so no one can make their choice based on what their enemies declared. If anyone forgets to declare their
Stance, they are assumed to be in the Attack Stance.
- Center Stance (page 84): You can take Free Actions in the Center Stance.
- Disarm Maneuver (page 86): This maneuver only requires 2 Raises and does normal damage now. Kicking a weapon
along the ground is a Free Action and sends it up to 10 feet away.
- Grappled Conditional Effect (page 89): The grappling condition reduces Armor TN by 10, not to 5.
- Improving Your Character (page 104): Each Skill Emphasis is worth 1 Insight.
- Horses in Combat (page 322): Steering a mount’s movements for the turn is a Free Action, regardless of which actions
the mount itself actually spends on movement. Further clarification, a rider can still use the Full Defense stance while
benefiting from a mount’s full movement potential.

New Rule: The Weight of Glory/Infamy
Whenever a character makes a Social Skill Roll to influence someone, he may add half his Glory or Infamy Rank to the
total of the roll (rounded down). This only works on people who recognize him, respect how he earned his fame, and
would realistically care about it in the situation where the roll is made. The GM is the final arbiter.

New Maneuvers
- Brandish Ofuda (0 Raises): Ofuda are small holy talismans made to war against supernatural threats and some of them
even work! If you have a genuine ofuda and are in the Defense or Full Defense stance, you may choose to sacrifice the
armor TN bonuses you normally gain from the stance to brandish the ofuda while saying a prayer. The TN of harmful
shugenja or maho-tsukai spells directed at you or allies within 20 feet is increased by half your Honor Rank (rounded
down) if you are in Defense stance or your full Honor Rank if you are in Full Defense stance. This can also work on the
supernatural powers of Shadowlands creatures but not gaijin magic.
- Push (1 Raise): As part of a melee attack you shove your enemy backward, possibly into deadly circumstances. If
successful, the attack deals normal damage and forces a Contested Strength Roll between the character and the target. If
the character is successful, the target stumbles 10 feet backward.

New Combat Conditional Effects
- Cover: A character can benefit from cover only when an attack or other effect originates on the opposite side of
something that block at least half his body. This provides a bonus to his Armor TN that ranges from +3 to +5 according to
the GM’s judgment. Optionally, the GM may decide that certain spells that function like projectiles may suffer the cover
bonus as a penalty to the Spellcasting Roll.
- Flanking: A character gains a bonus of +5 on the total of melee Attack Rolls against an enemy if they have an active ally
on the opposite side of that enemy and within melee range.
- Impure: A shugenja who has disappointed the spirits is considered impure until he earns their forgiveness. He cannot
add his School Rank or any Affinity to Spell Casting Rolls and those dice will not Explode. Shugenja who cast any maho
spells can draw on the kansen instead of normal elemental kami and are immune to this condition.
- Poor Visibility: A character trying to act in near darkness, fog, smoke, and similar situations where visibility is poor
suffers a penalty of –1k1 to all ranged attack rolls and Perception-based rolls. At the GM’s discretion, some spells that
function like projectiles might suffer a –5 penalty to their spellcasting rolls when being cast into or from an area of poor
visibility.

New NPC Technique: Peasant Vengeance
This is not so much a school technique as a crude tactic that has been passed on by peasant renegades to give them a
fighting chance against their samurai oppressors. It is mostly reserved for NPCs, but a ronin might pick it up under some
circumstances. You gain the benefits of Flanking as long as you have at least one ally adjacent to the enemy, even if they
are not on the opposite side. You lose 1 point of Honor each time you use this technique (but that doesn’t matter to
peasants anyway, so...).

Clarifications: The Commune Spell
- It is common knowledge in the setting that the elemental kami do not recognize individuals, only bloodlines, so asking
them to identify individuals is extremely difficult.
- Elemental kami do not speak the Rokugani language, which is why shugenja have to learn theirs.
- Elemental kami can reveal that someone is currently under the effects of a recently cast shugenja spell, but not maho or
long-term supernatural effects like Advantages or Disadvantages. Courts are aware of this and sometimes have a
shugenja on hand to check if someone is trying to magically enhance their performance before things like negotiations or
contests. If cheating is suspected, then a polite pretext for a delay is thought up so that the spell’s duration can lapse.
Identifying a spell through a spirit’s description might require a Spellcraft roll.